Hi, everyone.
In this next year, we're going to draw lines, arcs and circles randomly.
All right, so here is the plan that we have and the example, number four is going to be randomizing
the line's location.
So I'm going to say four and I'm going to say let I be equal to zero.
We are not equal to zero.
Are going to start from zero.
And the AI is going to go all the way to 20, OK?
And each time we are going to increment I by one.
And.
All right.
So first things first.
We need to grab the X the horizontal location.
We need to grab the vertical location because we have done that right in our previous part of this randomising.
And then because I want to randomize the size as well, I'm going to grab the line the finishing points
as well.
So we are going to get four variables.
So I'm going to say let X I'm going to call it X start and we are going to use our math, the random
method by now.
I think you're comfortable with this now because this is the horizontal starting position.
We need to get the width of the winter.
So window, window, dot, inner width.
I didn't go over this amount because it's basically the same thing except for this name and this name.
So I didn't go over that and canvas takes up the entire height.
And with we've gone over this, I don't want to go over that because we need we have a lot of things
to cover.
So why start is going to be math dot random.
Now we multiply it again by the window dot enter height.
In right now, this is the starting positions for X and Y, right?
So let's come to this one now.
What is going to be the ending position?
So I'm going to say let X and math dot.
Math that random and are basically going to do the same thing.
So I'm just going to copy this so it is going to end them randomly.
Right.
And then we have let Y end the same thing.
So by chance, they might be the same.
But there is a very, very small chance of these random numbers to be the same thing.
So this is why and I'm just going to change it to Etai.
All right.
So now let's create our line.
So first off, we are going to grab our canvas context and say begin path.
And then we want to grab the move to function and line to functions.
So canvas move to.
So these are going to be the starting positions.
So X start and Y start.
And then we have canvas contact, stud line to.
What is that line, too, and then these are going to be the ending positions, so X and.
X and and Y.
And and after that, I'm going to provide the color, you can randomize the color as well, but because
this is just like a simple line, I'm not going to go through the trouble of doing that.
So a canvas context, stroke style.
And let's set it to white and finally, let's draw them so canvas context, dot stroke, let's save
it, let's come here.
And that's the previous lecture.
Let's open it up with live server and we don't see anything.
And why do you think is that so now let's go over let's first of let's see if there is there are any
errors and window misspelt when this one is misspelled and this is misspelled because it was a copy
paste operation.
So let's save it.
Let's come here x and is not defined.
Why are you doing this?
So now everything should work perfectly fine.
And now you can see we get all this cluster of lines, so reload the page each time we get different
lines.
Now these lines, they have a different starting point.
You can see they have a different ending point.
They have a different size and also.
And that's it.
So we have just randomize the lines.
I know there is actually nothing practical about this, almost nothing practical.
But this idea is helpful when we get to our circles.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going I'm going to just comment this entire thing out, because
this is going to be very, very crowded when we get to where arcs and circles.
So in here, we are going to say for for let's I be equal to zero and then we are going to increment
the I we're going to we are going to say the I should go to twenty and then increment I by one.
Now we want to randomize the arcs location.
Right.
So for the arcs we know that we have an X start and Y start.
A Y start.
So X start should be math that random which is going to give us a random number.
No multiplied by window dot inner with.
In a year with now, the Y is going to be the same.
So I'm just going to copy it from there, put it right here uncommented.
All right.
So now we have our starting position for the ARC, which is a start.
And why start now?
We need a random radius as well.
So in case you want to randomize the size, then you need to randomize the radius as well.
So I'm going to say a radius and I'm going to use math dot random.
And that's multiplied by window.
Dart inner with, right, and because this is going to give me a large number, what I'm going to do
is I'm going to divide it by a tenth of this.
So it's going to give me a tenth of this random number and it's going to divide it by 10.
JavaScript is really good with this kind of mathematics, mathematical operations.
So canvas context, we are going to say begin path and now canvas context, that arc the biggest method.
So for the X horizontal position, we say X start for the wife, for the vertical position, we say
Y start for the radius.
I'm just going to say radius starting angle is going to be zero.
Now what is the ending angle?
The ending angle is going to be just fine because we want to draw an arc.
We don't want to draw a circle.
So we are not going to multiply it by two.
And finally, can this context start stroke?
Save it now, you can see we get all this.
It's blocked because we didn't define the stroke style, so I'm going to come down here, can this context,
stroke style change changed to train so that now we get green?
Now you can see that they have a different starting position, a different coordinates for each of the
arcs.
They have also different sizes.
Right.
So this is how you randomize arcs.
Now, how would we randomize circles?
It's almost the same thing.
And I'm just going to copy that and I'm going to paste it here.
I'm going to come in this one out.
And the only thing that I'm going to change here is just multiplied by two.
And there we go, we get circles, all right.
So with this, our lecture comes to an end and we have been able to randomize our lines and arcs and
finally circles.
See you guys in the next one.